Well, thanks for coming.
We've got some things to talk about.
My name's Matt Drance.
I'm Apple's
Sharing Technologies Evangelist.
And for the next hour,
I'm going to go into the details of
the new Push Notification Service,
which you all heard about on Monday.
It's one of the bigger pieces of
news at this year's conference.
And I'd like to start by
just setting the stage and
explaining why you guys are here.
Presumably you know why you're here,
but why you're here and
why this is such big news.
You guys are all working on iPhone apps,
and some of them probably
have connections to a server
somewhere in the cloud.
Now, when this app is running,
You can go ahead and fetch
new data as you see fit.
Goes right over to the app.
You update your user interface.
Users of the app stay informed.
But when your app quits,
the connection to that
server has been severed.
But life goes on,
and more information becomes available.
So how are you going to get
that new information to the user
in iPhone OS's model of only
one running process at a time?
This is exactly where the
Push Notification Service comes in.
This is a networked service provided
and maintained by Apple that's going
to allow you to notify users of new
information right on their iPhone,
regardless of whether or
not your app is running.
Once this notification
has reached the system,
the user can choose to bring your
application back to the front,
where you can then go ahead and
pull the new data in and get
that updated information to them.
So there are a number of reasons why
we think this is a great solution.
You heard about some of it on Monday,
but I'm going to go over it again.
First,
just like everything that we do at Apple,
it starts with user experience.
And user experience is more
than just icons and design and,
you know, artistic stuff.
User experience is about performance
and responsiveness and stability.
So I know a lot of you have asked
over the last couple months,
why can't I just write
a background process?
I know what I'm doing.
I can go ahead and create
a connection to my server.
And I can get that information
to my users whenever I want.
Well, in your own perspective,
that might be fine.
But the fact is,
you're not going to be the
only application on the phone.
So once we open those doors,
now we're going to be talking about an
unlimited number of background processes,
doing an unknown number of connections
to an unknown number of servers,
sending unknown amounts of data
for unknown periods of time.
Look at this.
This does not scale.
But I'll tell you what does scale.
A single cloud in the middle that
everybody communicates through,
talking to a single point
of entry on the phone,
where we know how to
balance for CPU consumption,
memory usage, and battery life.
This scales plenty.
We're also providing a
consistent UI to you guys,
a UI that you've seen elsewhere,
like in SMS and in the phone app.
We're going to allow
you to specify a badge.
We're going to allow you to give
textual alerts with a button
for the user to either dismiss
the alert or launch your app,
so you can go ahead and pull that
additional data to your application.
We're also going to let you specify
custom sounds that you provide.
And we're going to have
centralized settings.
All of the applications set up for this
service are going to show up in the Fetch
New Data settings in the Settings app.
So you can see here we've got
a list of a couple of apps,
and from here the user can specify
how they want the push to occur,
as well as turning notifications
on or off for specific apps,
as well as for all apps on the system.
So you get that for free.
And finally, it's easy.
It's easy both from a logistical
standpoint as well as from
a technical standpoint.
First of all,
it works over any connection,
both Wi-Fi and cellular connections.
And most importantly,
it's available to every member
of the iPhone Developer Program.
The keywords here are "push" and
"everybody." We are enabling you
guys to send push notifications
over the cellular networks just
as being a member of our program.
So I don't know how many people have
worked in the wireless space before.
If you haven't,
you should talk to somebody who has,
because this is huge.
You don't have to talk to the carriers.
You don't have to go through
any additional certification.
Those of you who are in the program
already have what you need to
participate in this once it's available.
Just send your notifications.
It's just as easy on the technical side.
In order to make this work,
you need to learn three
new Cocoa methods,
and on the server side, two HTTP methods.
That's it.
Done.
So with that,
let's go into the nuts and bolts of it.
I'm going to start by talking
about the registration process,
what you need to do to start sending
these notifications to a specific device,
We'll talk about the process
of actually publishing,
sending these notifications,
then receiving them on the client side,
and then we'll go into some
additional tricks you can do to
manage the service to your liking.
And then this will be a
large part of the talk,
best practices,
things that you're going to want to
remember to make this an effective and
consistent experience for your users,
because everybody, I suspect,
is going to want to use this.
Let's get started.
Registering for notifications is a
straightforward three-step process.
In the first step,
your iPhone application contacts
your server and lets it know
that there's a phone here that's
ready to receive notifications.
In the second step,
your server forwards that
information about the phone to
the Push Notification Service.
The Notification Service will return
the success value that you should
then forward back to your app,
and when your app has
received the success,
it goes ahead and registers
for notifications with
iPhone OS on the client side.
So let's go over the details
of these three steps.
First step, again,
is where the app contacts
your server and says,
"I have a phone here,
and I want to start sending notifications
to this iPhone or iPod Touch."
Now, all we care about is the device.
We just need to know where
these notifications are
going to get forwarded to.
But a lot of you with networked services,
of course, have usernames, passwords,
accounts,
so you need to know how to associate
notifications on the server side with
the person who's going to get them.
So if you're concerned about accounts,
usernames, passwords, credentials,
all of that is going to be up to you.
You just send that through
to your server and make sure
you've got the right person,
and from there, just send us the phone.
That's all we care about.
So what does this look like?
This is it, seriously.
We have a new method on
UI application called
Remote Notification System Identifier.
And this is a unique ID.
[Transcript missing]
So you have that unique ID,
and you basically just send
it over to your server.
And this register with my server
method is something implemented by you.
It's not their API.
I don't remember the last time
we had something with my in it.
Basically, you wait for a response.
And we'll go into that again later.
So that was step one.
You've told your server about a phone
that needs to register for notifications.
Step two is where you forward on
information about that device to
the Push Notification Service,
and you set up what we call a
publishing node to start sending
these notifications through.
And in this step,
we do have some authentication
required on the server side,
so that we know the person sending
these notifications is actually you.
And again, when the node has been
successfully created,
we will return a response to your server,
which you should then relay
back to your iPhone app,
so your app knows that
notifications have been enabled.
So what happens here on the server side?
How do you create this publishing node?
You do it with an HTTP post to
the Push Notification Service.
And here's the URL that you see here.
We're going to break
that down in a second.
It uses transport layer security
with basic authentication.
And at the end,
you're going to throw a query
string on there with an action
parameter set to create.
In other words,
I'm creating a notification,
a publishing node,
for this particular device,
for this application.
So that long URI you see there
has a couple things in it.
It has a publisher ID,
and this is basically your identifier,
your username, if you will.
And basically,
that's just going to be the same as
the bundle identifier of your app,
since you're ultimately sending
this to your app on your phone.
And this is important because if
somebody has 10 apps registered
with the Push Notification Service,
we need to know which app
the notification belongs to.
And then we're also going
to add that device ID,
which came from step one.
Again, it's the Remote Notification
System Identifier method,
and that's what it looks like.
It's basically just a hex string.
And finally,
you're going to provide a node name.
We haven't decided on the name yet,
but we're just going
to call it Inbox today.
So this is your URL for creating
and sending notifications.
And here's some Ruby code that would
show what this might look like.
I construct the URL.
I have the path there where I've got
my publisher ID and my device ID,
and an action of create at the end.
Got my basic authentication in there.
And now this is important,
I return that result to the client.
This is HTTP, so we want a 200 back.
And once that's been successful,
we go ahead and we tell the
client app that the registration
is done and we're ready to go.
So, you've told your server that you're
ready to listen for notifications,
and your server has told us that there's
a new iPhone out there ready to get them.
Once you start sending these,
they're not yet going to make it,
because you haven't yet told iPhone
OS that your application is specifically
ready to start receiving them.
So with apologies to Mr.
Goldbloom, there is a step three.
And no, it's not profit.
Well, hopefully it is,
but... Step 3 is your app
registers for notifications.
And you registered on the server side,
but you also need to tell the OS,
"I am this application,
and I am ready to start receiving
these notifications from the service."
So once that's happened,
your app goes away,
notifications get through,
you get your badge, your alert,
your sound.
[Transcript missing]
And here's the client side code.
And you've already seen most of this.
The first couple lines here
are right out of step one.
So we go ahead, we tell the server
about the publisher ID,
excuse me, the system identifier,
the subscription ID.
We wait for the response,
and once the response is positive
and we know the node is there,
we go ahead and we get the publisher ID,
which again is just
the bundle identifier,
and we tell a new method
on UI application,
register for remote
notifications from publisher,
and that is the third and final step.
And from there, notifications start going
through to the system.
Now this method does a lot of things.
It doesn't just allow you to receive
notifications when you're running,
but it also adds the app to that
list in the Fetch New Data Settings,
as well as a bunch of other things.
We'll talk about that a little bit later.
So that's registration.
Let's go over it again.
First, you contact your server about
a phone or an iPod Touch that's
ready to receive notifications.
Your server forwards that information
to the Push Notification Service.
Push Notification
Service sends you a response.
Hopefully that response is success.
And you send that back over to your
application so that it now knows to
ask iPhone OS to start listening.
Once registration is complete,
it's time to start sending notifications.
Let's talk about that now.
Sending notifications
is very straightforward.
It's done with an HTTP PUT to
the Push Notification Service.
You're using the same URI path from the
registration process we just went over,
so this should look familiar to you.
And the property list,
the body of the transaction
is just an XML property list.
And this is where you have the contents,
the context of that notification.
And this code is nearly
identical to what we had before.
It's just the PUT instead of a POST.
And you notice there's
no query string either.
But the URI is exactly the same.
So let's go over some more
server-side details here.
So all of the transactions you're
going to hear about in this hour use
HTTP over TLS with basic authentication.
The data that makes up the
notification itself is UTF-8 XML.
It's limited to one kilobyte.
So you need to remember that.
No huge dialogues, no 20-line messages,
please.
We're going to keep it simple.
We'll talk more about that in
the Best Practices section.
And for those of you new to the platform,
unfamiliar with property lists,
you'll hear plenty about it in our
introductory and tool sessions,
but the DTD is available at apple.com.
It's very straightforward.
And another point,
the service saves the last notification
that's sent out per client,
per node.
And we'll talk about how that might
be useful to you a little later.
So here's what the
notification body looks like.
This is that P list that you're going
to put in the body of your HTTP put.
The first key you see
there is UI Alert Body,
and this is what you specify
for the message inside an alert
if you want to send an alert.
So I already said this,
but you want these messages
to be short and clear.
There's not a lot of room here,
neither on the screen nor in the payload.
You're limited to one kilobyte.
You can already see there's a lot of
administrivia in here with the tags,
and not to mention the headers.
So keep these messages short and sweet.
You also have the ability to
enable or disable the button
that activates your application.
So by default, this button exists.
There's a -- you saw
the screenshot before.
We have that view button
that the user taps,
brings your application
right to the front.
If for whatever reason you don't need
the application to be brought forward,
you can optionally set this
UI alert show open button to false,
which will just have a
single dismiss button,
kind of like the alarm clock.
Specifying badges is
very straightforward.
We have a UI application badge key.
The value of this key should
be a positive integer.
I'll say that again: positive integer.
No negative integers, no decimals,
no fractions, no zapping bats,
just integers.
You've seen this on the phone before,
and we want this to be a
consistent experience with what's
already there in mail and SMS.
And this is very important.
Maintaining a correct value,
a correct count, is going to be up to
you on the server side.
And we'll talk a little bit
more about what that means
and what you'll have to do.
But we just take what you give us.
So if you send us a one
and then another one,
the badge value is still going to be one.
And finally, to specify sounds,
UI Alert Sound Key.
And this is a string value,
which is basically the name
of a sound file that's already
inside your application.
So it's just the file name
without the extension,
and we know to pull that out and play
it when these notifications arrive.
You can have any number of names,
obviously,
and we also have a constant that allows
you to just use the system default sound,
whatever the user has selected.
But you probably don't want to get
rid of this opportunity to have some
personalization on your part and make
your presence known on the phone.
You don't want to confuse the user,
and sounds are a great way to
have something distinct going on.
So things to remember when
you're sending notifications.
Again, keep the alert messages small
if you're going to use alerts.
You've got a one kilobyte limit,
including all the metadata
you saw on the screen.
And again,
you don't want to aggravate the user
and waste their time with long messages.
Localization is up to you.
I'm sorry to say we won't be
magically translating these things
for you as they go out the door.
So if that's important to you,
you need to transmit your locale
information maybe during step one,
during registration.
Just keep your server
apprised of where the user is.
It's important for you to
deliver localized content.
That's going to be your responsibility.
And most importantly,
track your badge count.
I already said this before.
The service does not track the count,
and the OS does not track it either.
So it's going to be your responsibility
to provide an accurate number for the
badge every time you send a notification.
So you've sent a notification,
and the OS will handle it,
put up the badge, the alert, the sound,
whatever you've specified.
But what about when your app is running?
To handle these notifications
while your app is active,
we have an optional method that
we're adding to the UI application
delegate that allows you to receive
the notification and all the
information associated with it.
And it looks very similar to any
notification handler that you have
dealt with in the past in Cocoa.
But the important thing is
this is required to respond
to notifications at runtime.
Because we're turning off the system
handlers while your app is active,
and this makes sense.
Presumably, you know what to do with your
information if your app is running.
We're not going to put up a dialogue
while your own app is running saying
that your app needs attention.
Your app has attention.
So, you need to remember that.
And you also need to
maintain the general state.
We're not going to update the badge
count when these notifications come in,
so it's going to be up to you to use the
badge count property on UI application
and set it however it's appropriate.
And you also want to make
sure the data is correct,
because if you've got direct
communication with your server going on,
you want to make sure this notification
that comes in is not redundant.
So why would I listen while I was active,
or why wouldn't I?
This is really going to
be a choice that you make.
That's up to you,
because everybody in this room is
going to have different use cases,
different scenarios,
different needs for this service.
So basically,
you just need to decide when
this is going to be appropriate.
If you, for example,
don't have a persistent
server connection,
and you don't do a lot of
communication with the server,
and things just trickle in very,
very slowly and infrequently,
then maybe it makes sense
to keep listening to these
notifications while you're active.
And it saves you the trouble of having
to maintain a connection and pull all
the time when there's nothing there.
Conversely,
if you have a persistent server
connection or you do check
frequently for various reasons,
it might not make sense to listen to
these notifications while you're active.
And in that case,
you can either conditionally ignore
it in the delegate method or just
don't implement the delegate method.
Remember, it's an optional method.
But these are things you need to
think about and decide on when
you start to write this code.
But mostly, most importantly,
server side control is not recommended.
You don't want to start playing
clever games where your app
launches and says to the server,
"Hey, don't send any more notifications
because I'm live now." And then on
your way out when you quit you say,
"OK, please start sending them again
because I'm about to quit."
That's a little risky because you
could run into race conditions,
the phone could ring,
your app could crash,
there are a lot of things that
could go wrong here where the
user suddenly misses out on
notifications as they come through.
So really, if you care about dropping
notifications while you're active,
just do so.
Just stop listening.
You can also unregister your app
altogether for these notifications.
And this is a pretty
heavyweight operation.
The unregistration actually removes your
app from the Fetch New Data settings.
So it doesn't just turn off listening.
It actually removes the app from the
service registration on the client side.
So really you want to use this sparingly.
This is not going to be your mechanism
for conditionally not listening.
It's basically if you're
end of life-ing the product,
if you're removing the feature,
if you have problems and you decide
you want to disable it altogether,
this is basically the--I would
call this the bazooka option.
This is probably something that none
of you are actually going to use.
But it's there for
consistency and parity.
And remember, users can turn off
notifications manually.
So it's not like it's something you
have to manage in your own settings.
Do you want to receive notifications,
yes or no?
That's being done in the Fetch
New Data settings globally on the system.
And when you uninstall your app,
we will go ahead and do the
paperwork required to take you
off of the notification system.
So unregistering is probably not
something that you'll do often.
So that's it for listening, receiving.
There are a couple other things
that we could talk about,
both on the client and server side,
that you probably want to keep in mind.
I mentioned earlier that we keep the
last notification that each client sends,
but it's only one.
So if you send four in a row,
we only hold on to that fourth one.
And you query this,
you can actually take a peek
at it using an HTTP GET.
And this code is starting to
look really redundant now.
It's the same URI, it's the same address,
and a GET instead of a PUT or a POST.
And what that'll do is give you that
P list back that you sent last time,
and maybe you can be clever about
providing additional context
in your second notification
or your nth notification.
We just talked about unregistering
from the client side.
But you also have that publishing
node up in the cloud with our service.
And how do you get rid of that
when the time comes maybe the
user has canceled their account,
they've uninstalled the app,
all of the above?
You do this with another HTTP post,
and that action query string is
now delete instead of create.
So this is the exact same code
you saw earlier during creation.
Now we're deleting instead of creating.
And again, this is not something you're
going to do very often.
This is just going to be in
a case of uninstallation,
of sign-offs,
people not paying their bills.
Let's go over everything
that happens on the server.
This is really straightforward.
If you're doing anything for
managing the publishing nodes,
you're doing a post.
You specify a create parameter for
create and a delete parameter for delete.
You use an HTTP put to publish
the notifications and a get to
read the last one that was sent.
And it's the same URI regardless
of what you're doing.
There it is.
So those are some additional tidbits
that you probably want to keep in
mind when you start implementing this.
Now let's move on to best practices.
This is probably the most
important part of the talk,
because it's really important
that when this goes live
and you guys start using it,
that it's a consistent
experience for everybody,
for all users of all applications,
whether they're on iPhone or iPod Touch.
So just some high-level thoughts on
using the service in the first place.
If you haven't gotten it already,
these are notifications.
This is not data you're sending.
Data is to be pulled by your
application when the user has elected
to bring it back to the front.
The whole point of this service
is to put the power in the hands
of the user to decide whether or
not the information is important
enough to be pulled at the moment.
And again, keep it simple.
You want to keep the
alert messages short,
and you want to have good,
solid logic that gets
an accurate badge count.
Remember you have that 1K maximum,
and that includes all the
tags and everything else,
so keep the messages short and sweet.
Additionally,
just think about sending emails.
If you have information that's
not really time sensitive that you
want to add some more verbosity to,
an email might be perfectly fine.
First of all, it's available today.
Second of all, like I said,
you can add additional context.
An email can be any length.
And you can still trigger -- you can
still prompt the user to go back to your
application by adding a URL to your app.
Your app can go ahead and
define a custom URL scheme.
And you can send an email
with that URL in it.
And maybe in the query string,
you've got some additional state,
context, whatever.
So email if you don't want to wait
for this service and you don't have
things that you -- you don't think
you'll be sending things frequently and
they don't need immediate attention.
Email is a perfectly good alternative.
And finally,
you don't want to depend on this service.
You don't want to design
a product around it.
The goal of this service is to make
good apps better and to put information
in the hands of users in a more timely,
more accurate fashion.
But they could go out of coverage.
They could drive under a tunnel.
They could turn
notifications off altogether,
either for your application
or for all applications in
the Fetch New Data settings.
And also remember that the
iPod Touch is Wi-Fi only.
So there's no cellular
activity for iPod Touch.
People are only going to be
able to get these notifications
when they're on a hotspot.
So things to remember:
don't build an app around this concept.
Now, client side,
things that you want to keep in mind,
keep track of.
It's up to you to decide whether you
want to listen to these notifications
or ignore them when you're running.
That's why we have that
optional delegate method.
So if you've got active,
persistent server communication,
you may not want to listen.
If you've got infrequent
server communication,
you don't want to waste
resources polling all the time,
listening for the notifications
might be a good idea.
And again,
the importance and the frequency of
the info is going to go into a lot
of this decision-making process.
We're going to talk more
about that a little later.
You want to avoid unregistering,
either on the client or the server side.
You want to keep the service intact.
You don't want to perform these
heavyweight register/unregister
operations repeatedly.
If you decide the notifications
are not important at the moment,
just stop listening while you're active.
So things you've got to
remember on the server side.
We've gone through all of this before,
but I want to lay it out
on one slide for you.
Your responsibilities will be
your own user authentication.
Again, all we care about is the device.
We don't care whose device it is,
what their password is,
what their username is.
That's up to you.
If that matters to you,
you need to track it.
Localization is up to you.
If you want to translate
things for different locales
based on where the user is,
based on where they bought
the application from,
whatever you decide is important,
it's up to you to track it.
And again, the badge count.
It's going to be up to you on the
server side to send an appropriate
badge count every time so that that
number doesn't jump all over the
place with successive notifications.
Let's visualize a little
bit what that means.
I've got a piece of data,
the app's not running,
I go ahead and I send a 1 to the
Push Notification Service because
I know that this is the first
notification I'm sending.
Get a second notification.
It's up to me on the server
side to know that that first
notification has not been handled,
obviously,
because the app hasn't been launched
and it hasn't made a connection
to the server to get the new data.
So, second time, I send a two.
And we just take that verbatim and
put it right onto the badge icon.
When the app comes back to the front,
you make your connection again,
pull the data down,
everything's been addressed and updated.
So at this point, if the information has
been read and addressed,
you go ahead and set the
UI application badge count property
to zero and set us back down.
And also tell the server,
we've cleared everything out.
New information comes
while the app's running,
you go ahead and pull it up,
either with your own
persistent server connection,
or maybe you were listening for
notifications while you were active.
Again, that's up to you.
The app quits.
Our badge count is zero.
We have no unread things.
Something else comes up,
and we start over at one.
So this is pretty straightforward,
but I just want to make it clear
to you guys that it's going to be
your responsibility to do this.
And anybody who's managed a
server should be familiar with it.
I mean, IMAP servers know how
many messages are unread,
so this is not really a
radical concept at all.
So now we need to talk
about user experience.
We've done a lot of work
for you by giving you the
badge icons and the alerts,
but there are things that
you want to remember,
regardless of which ones of these
mechanisms or combination of
these mechanisms you're using.
Things to make sure that the
experience is going to be
good across all applications.
So the key principles here are that the
notifications need to be actionable.
If you're going to put a badge with
a number on your application's icon,
do you know what the user
Do you know what the user is going
to do to make that number go away?
If you don't know the
answer to that question,
then you might not be
talking about a notification.
There may be something
else you should do,
like send them an email or a
dialogue with just a dismiss button.
It should be important,
and it should be important to the user.
We all think our data is important.
That's why spam exists.
It needs to be important to the user.
When they read that dialogue or they see
that badge icon or they hear that sound,
are they going to pick their phone
up and go launch your application?
Because they wanted to.
And the answer to that
question should be yes.
And it should be consistent.
You really want to minimize
the types of notifications.
You don't want to have ten different
kinds of notifications that you
send and ten different sounds,
because then you start
overloading the user's brain with,
"Well, what did that one mean?
I have no idea.
I can't remember." And you
also start talking about really
overwhelming numbers of dialogues.
Inform your users.
Don't annoy them.
That's really the main message here,
and the thing you want to keep
in mind when you start throwing
things in front of them.
So let's start by talking about badges.
Badges are going to be your
primary notification type.
They're non-intrusive,
they're informative, and they're clear.
And again, this should be for
actionable information.
When the user taps on your icon,
what are they going to do to
turn that one into a zero?
If you don't know the
answer to that question,
you need to think some more.
You need to keep a server-side count.
I've said this plenty of times already,
but I'm going to keep saying it.
And test your logic,
because there are a lot of
things going on around here.
A lot of things going on here.
And you want to make sure that that
number you send is accurate at all times.
The count can change while
you're in the background.
The notifications can
arrive while you're running,
and it's going to be up to you to marshal
where you want to start listening from.
Again,
ensure that the information is accurate.
We don't want to go from a 2
to a 7 to a 3 in 5 seconds.
So sounds.
Sounds are the big deal because
it gives you the ability to
identify your notifications to the
user without them even looking.
I can have my iPhone in my pocket,
and I hear a specific sound,
and I know who it came from.
And I say, oh, I've been waiting for a
new message from so-and-so.
I need to go look at the phone.
And this is basically an
opportunity for you guys to make
your mark and be distinguishable
from all the other apps that will
likely sign up for this service.
Largely, these sounds will behave
similarly to the SMS behavior.
So it will respect the vibrate settings,
and it will also interrupt the music.
So if the user's listening
to music on their iPod,
The sound will dim,
and they'll hear the chime,
and then the music will come back.
So what that means is you want to
keep these sounds short and distinct.
I said,
"It's an opportunity to have your brand
in place here and really have users know
where the notification is coming from
without even looking and that's great.
So go ahead and have a branded
sound." But ringtones and songs
are not going to get it done,
not only because they're way too long
for something like a notification,
but because when you
consider the iPod use case,
you don't want music to fade out
and then some more music plays.
That's just going to confuse the user.
Did a new song start or
did a notification come?
Is my phone ringing?
I have no idea.
And you want to ensure high quality here,
because you're going
to have a short sound.
You want it to be as clear as possible.
So 16-bit, 44 kilohertz stereo.
If I can hear your kids
screaming in the background,
it's not a good notification sound.
And most importantly,
you can do this today.
We said that the
Notification Service would
be available later this year,
but there's nothing stopping you
from going home this week and
deciding which sounds are going
to be used for notifications.
Presumably,
they're sounds that you already
have in your app for when new
data arrives while it's running.
So go ahead and decide which sounds
you're going to be using for your
notifications and bundle them with
the first version of your app.
This is one of the things
you can do right now.
Let's move on to alerts.
Things to keep in mind with alerts.
First of all, alerts are intrusive.
They're a pretty major-scale
type of notification.
So you really want to
use these sparingly.
You want to make sure you're not
going to overload the user with them.
Is the data important,
and is it infrequent?
Both of those criteria should be
met for something like an alert.
And this dialogue appears no matter what.
Somebody else's app is running,
your alert is going to show up.
So ask yourself, do you really want to
interrupt other apps?
And remember,
what goes around comes around.
So do you want somebody else interrupting
you and stepping in front of that user
experience that you're trying to provide?
So there's a good citizen
thing going on here,
where you really don't want
to overuse these alerts,
otherwise everybody loses,
including the user.
You also want to keep them general,
because the user might not have
gotten to the first dialogue,
or they might have forgotten it
and dismissed it immediately.
So if you're going to send
some alerts in succession,
will the third one make as
much sense as the first?
That's very important.
You don't want to have a
dialogue that talks back to
two notifications previously,
because the user might have long
forgotten what you were talking about.
And I said this earlier,
but you don't want to depend on delivery.
This is something that's supposed
to make your application better.
It's supposed to augment the
core functionality of your app.
You want to get this information to
them in a more timely fashion than you
would have before the service existed.
But you don't want to
build an app around it.
And you don't want to depend on this
mechanism as the way to get really
important things to the user right away.
So when would you use an alert?
What's a good use case
for creating an alert?
Well, there's a couple of levels here.
There's nice-to-know information,
something where I'm walking down the
street and I hear the ding and I look
up and I see the dialogue and I say,
"Oh, yeah, I've been waiting for that.
I'll go ahead and deal with it right now.
Or maybe I won't." That's
why we have two buttons here.
When we take a step up to
something worth knowing.
In other words,
I was heading somewhere and there's
been a change of plans and I probably
need to adapt to that on the fly.
It's a good candidate for an alert.
And then, of course,
you have need to know.
The kind of information that the
user absolutely can't wait to
hear and needs to do something
about as soon as possible.
And this is really,
this is where you really want to be is
between worth knowing and need to know.
I've got nice to know up there,
but nice to know is pretty subjective.
Like I said before,
we all think our data is important.
And we don't want to just send FYI stuff.
We want it to be actionable things that
are going to be important to the user,
and we don't want them
to happen too frequently.
Otherwise,
there's always going to be a dialogue up.
So that brings us to when
you wouldn't use them.
Obviously,
if the user doesn't need to know.
Can they wait until the next
time they launch the app?
Can they wait until they get an email?
An alert is for timely and
important notifications.
[Transcript missing]
Don't waste the user's time.
This service is supposed
to make your app better,
not worse.
And we're trusting you
to decide appropriately,
because none of us wants the user
to just uninstall your app because
they've gotten too many dialogs.
So, combinations here, the scenarios.
If you're going to be using an alert,
you're probably also going to
have a badge associated with that.
And you're probably also
going to have a sound.
So, you're kind of all in if you've
decided you have an alert scenario.
There are a few cases where you
have an FYI sort of thing where it
might just be an alert and a sound.
But like I said, you don't really want
to concentrate on that.
Because if it's not that important,
it's probably not an alert.
And for badges,
you probably want to associate
a sound with that as well.
And you may want to provide
some settings to tweak that,
which brings us to
Settings and Preferences.
We talked about this in the beginning,
but the system fetch new data
settings control the service
and how the service is used.
So things like push versus
fetch versus manual,
as well as just turning
it on and off altogether.
And again, the user can enable or disable
the service for just your app or
for all apps across the system.
And that's something
you need to remember.
But that's controlled by us.
As soon as you register with iPhone OS,
you get put in that list and you
don't need to worry about the
settings to turn things on or off.
And your inline settings
should control the rest.
So things like choosing a certain sound
for a certain type of notification,
and maybe things like how often
you want notifications to be sent.
And that would be something you,
of course, relayed back to your user.
Excuse me, to your server.
And there are tons of things
you can put in these settings,
but you want to generally keep it simple.
You don't want to go crazy.
You don't want to have numerous
types of notifications,
and I said this earlier.
You want to just decide what are the
things that are really important.
And this is a good mental exercise
anyway if you attended John's user
experience session this morning.
What are the things that
the user really cares about?
Why did they download my app?
And do they want to know about this
stuff as it changes at all times?
That's what a notification is.
You also want to avoid filtering.
Stuff like,
only send me a notification if
these five of my 750 friends
update their profile picture.
Managing a UI for that is not
going to work out so very well.
We really want to keep this simple.
So think hard about what's important and
what's going to be important to the user.
So the key user experience points.
Don't annoy the user.
I would think that's common sense,
but I have to say it out loud.
If you annoy the user,
they're going to disable
notifications to your app,
or they're just going to uninstall it,
and nobody wants that.
Use badges as your
primary notification type.
It's usually more than enough
to get their attention,
especially with a sound associated to it.
I pick up my phone, I say, "Wow,
I have five unread messages.
I'm going to go ahead and launch
this app and go take a look at them."
Provide clear and short sounds.
Clear as in high quality,
as in distinguished and brand, you know,
containing your brand so that you
can distinguish yourself between
other applications on the system.
And short,
because you don't want to annoy the
user as the notifications come in.
Maintain proper context.
Make sure you have that accurate
badge count and have clear
and consistent alert messages.
Make sure the third
dialogue will make sense,
even if the user hasn't read the first.
And finally,
make sure you're aware of the
changing conditions that could happen.
You might have an iPod Touch user
who's only going to be getting
notifications when they're on Wi-Fi.
And you have the variability
of cell phone coverage.
The user might be in Antarctica,
they might be driving under a tunnel,
they might have dropped
their phone on the ground.
Keep those things in mind.
So that's really it.
This is a short session because
it's a simple technology.
But things you can do today
Prepare your servers.
Go home,
think about your server architecture,
think about what you saw today
with these posts and puts and gets.
And think about what you're going
to need to do to make this work and
integrate it easily into whatever
you've got set up right now.
Think about user experience.
Think about what kind of
notifications you want to send:
dialogues, badges, sounds.
Think about how important
they really are to the user.
Decide on your sounds.
You've probably got some picked already
for your app while it's running.
Make sure you've got those bundled.
That's one thing you can not
have to worry about when we
finally launch this service.
You'll have that taken care of.
And finally, plan for a quick upgrade.
I know everybody's dying
for the App Store to launch,
but at some point we're going
to push this thing live,
so pencil in a quick update
so you guys can move quickly
when this service goes live,
and you'll be ready to put something out
that immediately takes advantage of it.
You want to be there quickly
after the server's live.
You don't want to be there
six months or a year later.
You want to make sure you've got
the edge here before somebody else
who's doing something similar has
already provided notifications.
We're early here,
so we're still working on things.
If you want more information,
if you want a recap of
what we talked about here,
a little more detail,
you can always get in touch with me.
And I'm sure all of you are going
to the iPhone Dev Center regularly.
Just check back there for any updated
information that we have on this
service once it becomes available,
once it gets closer.
Sessions you want to keep in mind when
you go home and start watching videos:
the application development
fundamentals for the newcomers.
I presume everybody was there.
But that will get you a
little more acquainted with
things that I was mentioning,
like UI application and notifications.
Hopefully by now it's Wednesday.
You guys at least know
what UI application is.
And the User Interface Design Session,
which talks a lot about thinking
from the user's mental state.
What does the user think is important?
What does the user find important?
And that should affect the
decisions you make when it comes
to sending these notifications,
as well as designing your
application in the first place.
And assuming we run out of time in Q&A,
we're going to go ahead and
run out to Twin Peaks right
behind this for soft seating.
And we can go ahead and hear some
more of your thoughts and questions
and what else you'd like to see out
of this service as it moves forward.